mkdir Linuxing – the Linuxing In London's newsletter issue 0.

1.  Welcome

Welcome to the first edition of our newsletter. We are aimed squarely at
popularising the use of technology, open source and Linux and as a
result our content is very varied, not just plain old Linux or BSD.

This newsletter contains links we thought might be useful to members of
our MeetUp group.

It provides a wide sampling of technology and events. We don’t believe
that technology should be confined to a few aficionados or those in the
know and our newsletter reflects that.

If you have attended one of our meetings you’ll know we like freebies,
this newsletter is no exception. Some of the events include discount
codes, please use them!

The format of this newsletter is somewhat experimental.

There is a section for Jobs towards the end. We will include in a
Wanted/Recycling section if there is demand.

If you’ve never been to a Pi Jam before I would recommend the East
London Raspberry Jam, it is free and organised by [Nic
Hughes.](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://twitter.com/duck_star&sa=D&ust=1474411560421000&usg=AFQjCNFIJLgtcmAC03R6G1EgNHkF1nIrWQ) 

Hint: Linuxing In London are looking for volunteers to help out, and if
possible a (free) designer for our Github-hosted web site. So if you
fancy being artistic with Jekyll please contact Brian or
[David.](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://about.me/thedavidross&sa=D&ust=1474411560422000&usg=AFQjCNFlL6zJJjTpawc8TM4gwkgu207Bqw)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://about.me/thedavidross&sa=D&ust=1474411560423000&usg=AFQjCNGu6uAJmV69NoSqLcHrM36eDxPHAQ)

Enjoy!

BrianLinuxing@gmail.com

2.  Videos of Linuxing In London events

If you missed out on attending our events thus far, don’t worry! All of
our events at Skills Matters are recorded. I heartily recommend Alina’s
presentation as a starter.

The archive of our talks can be found here: [Linuxing in London – past
events](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://skillsmatter.com/groups/10627-linuxing-in-london%23past_events&sa=D&ust=1474411560426000&usg=AFQjCNGFSQbO7C-D2yLJx6-Oz46OtNJ9eQ) 

3.  Linuxing In London Events

-     22nd September 2016,: Robots, Startups and a bit of Linux,
    speaker: Josh Elijah. Cats Vs Dogs: Securing Linux with SELinux. A
    quick introduction to SELinux, and how to debug your set-up if it
    all goes wrong, speaker: Anthony Kesterton. Puppet on Linux: Past,
    Present, and Future, speaker: John Boero.

-     19th October 2016: A Linuxing In London special: an evening with
    the renowned Alina Swietochowska. The evening is kindly sponsored by
    QA.

4.  Up-and-coming technical happenings

There is so much choice, but just a few for your delectation:

September

[Operability.IO](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://operability.io/&sa=D&ust=1474411560430000&usg=AFQjCNErbC53SC4F6ed5ss1tSGK3HZDNlA) (paid):
19 - 20 September 2016 - Milton Court Concert Hall, Barbican, Silk St,
London, EC2Y 9BH Discount code: LINUXING-OIO16

[Cloud & Infrastructure Summit
2016](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.computingsummit.com/cloud&sa=D&ust=1474411560431000&usg=AFQjCNGbQdnZ2K1JIbjQgNuX9F1iZhndZw) (free):
22nd September 2016 - etc. venues Fenchurch Street, London.

[AI With The
Best](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://ai.withthebest.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560432000&usg=AFQjCNE8Du4QUg4PDH21IwW7jTJek2kiYg) (online
conference): 24-25th Sept - Learn from 100 AI experts including X.ai,
Google, OpenAI, Netflix, Microsoft, Numenta and some amazing startups
and cutting-edge machine learning researchers building the future of
AI. Discount code: 50% off with LinuxLondon; \$40 instead of \$80,
(student tickets \$20)

        

[East London Wikimedia
Meetup](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Meetup/East_London/7&sa=D&ust=1474411560433000&usg=AFQjCNFIyJ-Fnt0vhNFM1prM1CfzYkr2zQ) (free):
27th September 2016 - Waitrose Café, Canary Wharf.

[AngularConnect](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://angularconnect.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560434000&usg=AFQjCNEMz3ySvXROXELnG0olZOj5wHEMTg) (paid):
27 & 28 September 2016 - Excel, London

October

[Amazon Developer
Summit](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.eventbrite.com/e/amazon-appstore-developer-summit-tickets-24104793085?src%3DMeetupAmazonAppDev&sa=D&ust=1474411560436000&usg=AFQjCNEP64aRXn2xrdFK1H_NnrgWD5vaOw) (paid):
4th October 2016 - CodeNode, London.

[Red Hat Forum United Kingdom
2016](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.redhat.com/en/about/events/red-hat-forum-united-kingdom-2016&sa=D&ust=1474411560436000&usg=AFQjCNFrKsUG0jHg1hHTAesqP3T_92_bZw) (free):
4th October 2016 - etc. venues Bishopsgate.

[LinuxCon + ContainerCon
Europe](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon-europe/extend-the-experience/evening-events&sa=D&ust=1474411560437000&usg=AFQjCNFwvWbn5JPPXvSTsL2Mw0hFCg9eOg) (paid):
4-6 October - Berlin, Germany.

Discount code: LCEULL10 - gives members 10% off for all-access passes

[GOTO London 2016 Developer
Conference](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://gotocon.com/london-2016/&sa=D&ust=1474411560439000&usg=AFQjCNFAEwCWh2f_hezMzOcaurLobttOMA) (paid):
12th-14th October 2016 - CodeNode, London.

[European Community Leadership
Summit](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://clsxeurope.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560440000&usg=AFQjCNEFk8ZrE2WKbHU4bwoUTJkv7ADZqQ) (free)
– 16 October 2016 at Hilton London Metropole, 225 Edgware Road, London
W2 1JU

[O'Reilly
OSCON](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/open-source-eu/public/schedule/grid/public&sa=D&ust=1474411560441000&usg=AFQjCNF-eC5hvCIPd9LcSXAO-T1T4pb4jw) (paid):
17th- 20th October 2016 - Hilton London Metropole, 225 Edgware Road,
London W2 1JU Discount code: USRG

[PuppetConf
2016](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.openstack.org/summit/barcelona-2016/&sa=D&ust=1474411560443000&usg=AFQjCNHyf69II1f7DL827aJccHI3j3l7aQ) (paid):
19-21 October - San Diego.

[London Ruby
Unconference](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.eventbrite.com/e/london-ruby-unconference-tickets-27663867372&sa=D&ust=1474411560444000&usg=AFQjCNGUbVMGhzW3nn-sB5v3a30LXmxoFg) (paid):
22 October 2016 - Hackney House, London.

[East London Raspberry
Jam](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/east-london-raspberry-jam-tickets-27374027453&sa=D&ust=1474411560445000&usg=AFQjCNH4wVMIbnposgCcOw25m5Uhuuc-7g) (free):
22nd October 2016 - 12:00 – 16:00. Barking Library, Barking Learning
Centre, 2 Town Square, Barking.

[OpenStack
Summit](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.openstack.org/summit/barcelona-2016/&sa=D&ust=1474411560446000&usg=AFQjCNHoeFwIxpPLczezkNuxZu-vbIJDPg) (paid):
25-28 October 2016 - Barcelona, Spain.

[OpenPOWER Summit
Europe](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://openpowerfoundation.org/openpower-summit-europe/&sa=D&ust=1474411560447000&usg=AFQjCNF-hby8yWwhkpTo8GJZESt4WlDj6w) (free):
26-28 October 2016 - Barcelona, Spain, co-located with the OpenStack
Summit Europe.

[Serverlessconf
London](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://london.serverlessconf.io/&sa=D&ust=1474411560448000&usg=AFQjCNEgZg-AyjpodfE2f7sG0xuOuUS7hw) (paid):
26-28 October 2016 - etc. venues St. Paul's, London.

[Droidcon London
2016](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://uk.droidcon.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560449000&usg=AFQjCNHqE_0NsPlIMl46aBKdKi2SgSnVMg) (paid):
27th- 28 October 2016. Business Design Centre, London.  Discount Code:
ESYNERGY-DISCOUNT-10

[MozFest](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://mozillafestival.org/&sa=D&ust=1474411560451000&usg=AFQjCNGTRP079ayfXiOn-eejB708WeK-hw) (paid):
October 28-30 2016 - Ravensbourne, London. [Opportunities to volunteer
too](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://mozillafestival.org/volunteer&sa=D&ust=1474411560451000&usg=AFQjCNGGy6wdcd22Qtx0Iy-mHeWIXkct3Q).

[IOT With The
Best](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://iot.withthebest.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560452000&usg=AFQjCNGRrkDZIBWywKtNqTDgS0_FX0sg7Q) (online
conference): 29-30th Oct - Join 100 speakers from Arduino, Linux, IBM,
Uber, Sigfox, Aldebaran for live, interactive tech talks, demos, 1-to-1
sessions and access for 2 months!

Discount Code: 50% off with LinuxLondon \$15 instead of \$30 (early bird
until Sept 7th then \$30, \$40. student tickets \$20)

November

[SUSEcon](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.susecon.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560455000&usg=AFQjCNHMkzuCKp3e8wDu-x3BzJXvbu5BUA) (paid):
7-11 November 2016 - Washington DC

Discount code: isrstmsc16

5.  Heap dump – Brian’s brief editorial.

It has been some 25 years since a young Finnish student posted a simple
comment on the minix Usenet group. Now Linux exists everywhere, at
Google, Facebook, Mozilla and tens of thousands of other organisation.
Even at Microsoft!

Linus has won, but more importantly, it opened up a new culture in
computing. A non-elitist ethos where everyone can potentially
participate, if they have the will, the energy and that initial
technology.

Getting people to use old laptops in developing countries is one of the
best projects that could exist. It shows students, poor kids, and
everyone else that you just need perseverance and a good idea.

The advent of Raspberry Pi has opened up a new world for children,
creativity is not merely confined to those with the most expensive
hardware.

Linux has played a crucial role in democratising access to technology,
but so much more to be done.

And you can play your part too!

Help your relatives, friends and colleagues reuse of those old laptops
(often consigned to the bottom of the cupboard after they’ve ground to a
halt or been infected with numerous viruses). Encourage people to reuse
technology, to give it a new lease of life.

Install Linux everywhere on everything, and you will make me a very
happy old man.

6.  Around the blogs, links and even Raspberry Pi

[Fuchsia](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.pocket-lint.com/news/138518-google-fuchsia-os-what-is-it-and-what-does-it-power&sa=D&ust=1474411560462000&usg=AFQjCNGxHHkv4pNjPg1i7inU27GiSu81gQ) 

[Swift 3.0
Released!](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://swift.org/blog/swift-3-0-released/&sa=D&ust=1474411560463000&usg=AFQjCNFR4YkTWw0alIdJQuR1BljALE9dLA)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://swift.org/blog/swift-3-0-released/&sa=D&ust=1474411560464000&usg=AFQjCNGOquWd9U5pXl4kee2aFQc-qTbNuw)

[6 essentials on Docker
containers](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.plesk.com/2016/09/18/docker-containers-explained/&sa=D&ust=1474411560464000&usg=AFQjCNHvw_SOih_J9ZFrEj0s1btoSaFxJg) 

[Golang UK
Conference](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9ZNrGdT2aAdrNbX78lbNlQ&sa=D&ust=1474411560465000&usg=AFQjCNFdgoDluLLUBWKzKLS0_oiRFzPIRw) on
YouTube

[Infographics: Operation Costs in CPU Clock
Cycles](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://ithare.com/infographics-operation-costs-in-cpu-clock-cycles/&sa=D&ust=1474411560467000&usg=AFQjCNHSVA7HFhZuu-ygIea0Y_4WPUb-Wg) 

[PiBakery](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/pibakery/%23comments&sa=D&ust=1474411560468000&usg=AFQjCNF6rPWhYHkIhgtTIpTZjoYSmmntqw) –
not yet there for Linux, but shows great promise.

[Cory LaNou’s Testing with
Go](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://go-talks.appspot.com/github.com/corylanou/go-presentations/slides/testing.slide%231&sa=D&ust=1474411560469000&usg=AFQjCNHX8iXoxad-0RnCnSwtf3034FUqUg) 

[Lessons from launching billions of Docker
containers](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.javaworld.com/article/3112875/application-development/lessons-from-launching-billions-of-docker-containers.html&sa=D&ust=1474411560471000&usg=AFQjCNEA3jd0c3nfMFvglaeWRb3Lk0vCCQ) 

[Alex Ellis' tutorials for Docker + Swarm Mode on the Raspberry
Pi](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://blog.alexellis.io/tag/raspberry-pi/&sa=D&ust=1474411560472000&usg=AFQjCNEiPGRNuYd_vyJrZf6bRghDhzMVnA)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://blog.alexellis.io/tag/raspberry-pi/&sa=D&ust=1474411560473000&usg=AFQjCNHqpm-mIQM2avfrOOmYKFRsnRqS7g)

["Rusty Runtimes: Building Languages In Rust" by Aditya
Siram](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%3DU3upi-y2pCk&sa=D&ust=1474411560474000&usg=AFQjCNF3O6DkUCfCDGN2CliXRzkqNk_gyg)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%3DU3upi-y2pCk&sa=D&ust=1474411560474000&usg=AFQjCNF3O6DkUCfCDGN2CliXRzkqNk_gyg)

[Katacoda: Interactive Learning Platform for Software
Engineers](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.katacoda.com/&sa=D&ust=1474411560475000&usg=AFQjCNFyPpQ4v4k_amqRDKKLYvchK3mJ2Q) 

[Multi-Gigabit Networking on a
Budget](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://linuxjedi.co.uk/posts/2016/Jan/02/multi-gigabit-networking-on-a-budget/&sa=D&ust=1474411560477000&usg=AFQjCNHiNLtEhI-YbdxJ-TRB9gAJjRbGLg)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://linuxjedi.co.uk/posts/2016/Jan/02/multi-gigabit-networking-on-a-budget/&sa=D&ust=1474411560477000&usg=AFQjCNHiNLtEhI-YbdxJ-TRB9gAJjRbGLg)

[Xenial Xerus Ethernet Fixup for the Raspberry
Pi](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://dev.iachieved.it/iachievedit/xenial-xerus-ethernet-fixup-for-the-raspberry-pi/&sa=D&ust=1474411560478000&usg=AFQjCNEXaesPAtM7HEyzsONCayf259VwkA)

[](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://dev.iachieved.it/iachievedit/xenial-xerus-ethernet-fixup-for-the-raspberry-pi/&sa=D&ust=1474411560479000&usg=AFQjCNEN4NBAfPOwdfKtYbMT675f3RnLdw)

7.  Dave’s notes

Brian has asked me to put my stamp on this newsletter too. I can't do so
without very briefly describing how Linux got me here today.

In the relatively short period of time (2008) I've been using Linux I've
switched from GUI distros (Ubuntu 8/Hardy Heron, Fedora 9/Sulphur), to
the minimal (Crunchbang 10, BunsenLabs Hydrogen, Debian Jessie), and
more recently settling on something I feel is wedged in between and
brings a little colour back into my life (Manjaro LXQt).

It was only through using an indestructible Netbook that was struggling
with the heavy GUI I tested a swathe of flavours. Getting rid of Windows
7 was something done one day one, and I little desire to head back that
restoring route. I made the mistake of thinking I could look at the
entire list on Distrowatch and find the one that looked the best. Yes I
survived going down that rabbit hole.

Ultimately I began to switch from simply using Linux, to exploring
through my use. Through its minimal interface the design of Crunchbang
(and the later community branch BunsenLabs) forced you to interact with
OpenBox and the command line. The excellent documentation encouraged you
to learn some basic scripting to edit the distro precisely to your
liking. To get comfortable using terminal.

I'm forever indebted to Crunchbang's creator Philip Newborough in
capturing my passion for Linux and I think I'll always tweak things so
they're that little bit greyer.

8.  Command Line morsels and gotchas

Not sure about xz files? Use tar xvfJ file.tar.xz or install xz-utils
and use unxz

Lost your swap file? Try cat /proc/swaps

Worried about performance? Use glances and dstat

9.  Women in tech

The role of women in technology is often downplayed despite being 51% of
the population. We hear little of the immense achievements of Hedy
Lamarr, Ada Lovelace or Margaret Hamilton. Hedy Lamarr invented spread
spectrum technology, used every day in modern Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth
([cnet.com](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.cnet.com/uk/news/happy-100th-birthday-hedy-lamarr-movie-star-and-wi-fi-inventor/&sa=D&ust=1474411560490000&usg=AFQjCNHIlejXFKqoCEcXZP7TYm0iPEiEIg)).

Ada Lovelace is considered to be the world’s first programmer
([biographer.com](https://www.google.com/url?q=http://www.biography.com/people/ada-lovelace-20825323%23babbage-and-the-analytical-engine&sa=D&ust=1474411560492000&usg=AFQjCNEu6utUbXeDrOD2ET5z3C2A_1q4zA)).
Margaret Hamilton’s coding skills probably saved NASA’s Apollo
11([wired.com](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.wired.com/2015/10/margaret-hamilton-nasa-apollo/&sa=D&ust=1474411560493000&usg=AFQjCNEFTFiuFmQk0HOAmtu0_kdYg-yhfQ)).

In recent years there has been a change, an increasing desire to counter
the gender imbalance in technological circles with the advent of STEM.
These are just a few of the many excellent MeetUps in and around London:

[Women Who Code
London](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Code-London/&sa=D&ust=1474411560495000&usg=AFQjCNEZrQxp6gozG5DRcqRco_5mWgG9SQ) 

[London
TechLadies](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.meetup.com/London-Tech-Ladies/&sa=D&ust=1474411560496000&usg=AFQjCNE-_PKB40Xvgjnn6QEORSHdhdQF-Q) 

[Women Hack For Non
Profits](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.meetup.com/Women-Hack-For-Non-Profits/&sa=D&ust=1474411560497000&usg=AFQjCNFHKp9qrfth2HwuhDYcgAkmo_iD4g) 

[Women Who Go
(London)](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.meetup.com/Women-Who-Go-London/&sa=D&ust=1474411560498000&usg=AFQjCNFX34NFWfP17-lUVF_cLIRZ6UVtBQ) 

[Women In Games WIGJ Meetup
Group](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.meetup.com/WIGJMeetup&sa=D&ust=1474411560499000&usg=AFQjCNH2XMNx--8QqkRcvzVwL5vOTrTd6w) 

We are very keen to hear from any women speakers, particularly around
Linux, BSD or Open Source. Please contact Brian or David.

 

10. David’s bits

Onto the fun stuff I've checked out this month.

We forgot the cake. Yes we know we forgot the Linux 25th birthday cake
at the August Meetup. You don't know how much I love cake, so even
writing this hurts. But we're all adults. It's the past now.

Maidsafe hit Alpha release. It's a decentralised file platform. It's
different because it encrypts by default and you'll earn Safecoins by
contributing to the source code or helping improve the network.
Conceptually it's really ace, but it's taken quite some time to get to
this point, and forums are not short on people airing that opinion.
Alpha release has work on building and hosting your website, storing
private data, and sharing public data. I've got quite excited by the
browser some members of the community are knocking together. As it's
still growing I've found it a nice ethical project to wrap my head
around. Check them out at https://maidsafe.net and the community forum
at https://safenetforum.org/

The best way to become a \*great\* programmer is to reverse engineer the
stuff you like. Not only was this the best advice I've ever had from a
15 year old who knows 15 computer languages, it was recently backed up
by a software engineer at Product Hunt. I think I really need to start
doing this and will let you know how I get on at the September Meetup.
https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-best-way-to-become-a-great-programmer/answer/Mike-Coutermarsh

I'll leave you with this little nugget some of you may have missed. In
case you were not aware, we love our penguins at Linuxing in London. And
it seems Edinburgh Zoo love their penguins so much they gave one a
medal.
https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2016/aug/22/sir-nils-olav-the-penguin-receives-military-promotion-at-edinburgh-zoo

11. Jobs

We want to help our members so we asked Henrietta Alexander
\<[Henrietta.Alexander@esynergy-solutions.co.uk](mailto:Henrietta.Alexander@esynergy-solutions.co.uk)\>
to provide a short listing. Please contact her (with your CV) if you
feel they might suit you:

Job title: Senior DevOps Engineer

Skills: Linux/Chef/Jenkins/Docker/Jenkins/AWS

Location: Welwyn Garden City

Rate/Salary: £70,000 +

Job title: Web Operations Engineer

Skills: Linux/Docker/AWS/Jenkins/Python  

Location: London

Rate/Salary: £500/day

 

Job title: Junior DevOps Engineer

Skills: Linux/Chef/AWS

Location: Great Portland Street

Rate/Salary: £40,000 +

Job title: DevOps Engineer

Skills: Linux/Jenkins/Maven/Ansible

Location: London

Rate/Salary: £500/day

Duration: 6 months 

 

Job title: DevSecOps Engineer

Skills: Linux/Docker/Kubernetes + Security Concepts  

Location: Charing Cross

Rate/Salary: £60,000 +

12. For the future

In future editions of mkdir Linuxing we shall try to have
Wanted/Recycling Ads and we would welcome short contributions on Linux,
BSD, Open Source, IoT or interesting technologies (\~300 words max.).

13. Thanks

This newsletter would not have been possible without the help of those
lovely people at Skills Matter, Wendy, Russell, Ali, Megan, Nic, Herman,
Fraser and Lovella. Including but not limited to Alan and his team at
Red Hat, Andrew and the IBMers, Stephen at SUSE. Henrietta, Adele and
Rachael at eSynergy Solutions and many more, you know who you are. :)

A big, big thanks to Dave!
